True Stories of Wonderful Deeds

   PICTURES AND STORIES FOR
         LITTLE FOLK

      
          CHICAGO

  M.A. DONOHUE & COMPANY.

 407-429 DEARBORN STREET.




=The Royal Oak=


There is in Shropshire a fine oak-tree which the country people there
call the "Royal Oak". They say it is the great-grandson, or perhaps the
great-great-grandson of another fine old oak, which more than two
hundred years ago stood on the same spot, and served once as a shelter
to an English king. This king was Charles II, the son of the unlucky
Charles I who had his head cut off by his subjects because he was a weak
and selfish ruler.

On the very day on which that unhappy king lost his head, the Parliament
passed a law forbidding anyone to make his son, Prince Charles of Wales,
or any other person, king of England. But the Scottish people did not
obey this law. They persuaded the young prince to sign a paper, solemnly
promising to rule the country as they wished; then they crowned him
king. As soon as the Parliament heard of this they sent Cromwell and his
Ironsides against the newly-crowned king and his followers, and after
several battles the Scottish army was at last broken up and scattered at
Worcester.

Charles fled and hid in a wood, where some poor wood-cutters took care
of him and helped him. He put on some of their clothes, cut his hair
short, and stained his face and hands brown so that he might appear to
be a sunburnt workman like them. But it was some time before he could
escape from the wood, for Cromwell's soldiers were searching it in the
hope of finding some of the king's men. One day, Charles and two of his
friends had to climb into the tall oak to avoid being caught. They had
with them some food, which proved very useful, for they were obliged to
stay in their strange hiding-place for a whole day. The top of the
oak-tree had been cut off some few years before this time, and this had
made the lower branches grow thick and bushy, so that people walking
below could not easily see through them. It was a fortunate thing for
Charles, for while he was in the tree, he heard the soldiers beating the
boughs and bushes in the wood as they searched here and there, and even
caught glimpses of them through the leaves as they rode about below.

When they had gone, without even glancing up into the tall oak-tree, he
came down, and rode away from the wood on an old mill-horse, with his
friends the wood-cutters walking beside him to take care of him as best
they could. The saddle was a poor one, and the horse's pace jolted
Charles so much, that at last he cried out that he had never seen so bad
a steed. At this the owner of the horse jestingly told him that he
should not find fault with the poor animal, which had never before
carried the weight of three kingdoms upon its back. He meant, of course,
that Charles was king of the three kingdoms of England, and Scotland,
and Ireland.

Carried by the old horse, and helped by the poor wood-cutters, Charles
at last reached the house of a friend. Here he hid for a time, and then
went on to try and escape from the country. This time, so that he might
not be discovered, he was dressed as a servant, and rode on horseback,
with a lady sitting on a cushion behind him, as was then the fashion.
After several more dangers he managed to get on board a ship and sailed
away to France.

[Illustration: KING CHARLES IN THE OAK]




=Bonnie Prince Charlie=


Prince Charlie was the grandson of King James II, who was driven away
from the throne of England because he was a selfish man and a bad ruler.
The young prince tried to win the crown back again. He came over to
Scotland from France, with only seven followers; but soon a great many
of the Scots joined him, for he was so gay, and handsome, and friendly,
that all who saw him loved him. They called him "Bonnie Prince Charlie".
But though the prince and his followers were very brave, they had no
chance against the well-trained soldiers of King George of England. They
won a few victories; then they were thoroughly beaten in the battle of
Culloden. Thousands of brave Scots were slain, and the prince had to fly
for his life.

After this, for many weeks, he hid among the moors and mountains from
the English soldiers who were trying to find him. He lived in small
huts, or in caves, and many times had nothing but the wild berries from
the woods to eat. Once he stayed for three weeks with a band of robbers,
who were very kind to him; and though the king offered a large sum of
money to anyone who would give him up, not one of his poor friends was
false to him.

At last, a young and beautiful Scottish lady, named Flora MacDonald,
helped him to escape. She gave him woman's clothes, and pretended that
he was her servant, called Betty Burke. Then she took him with her away
from the place where the soldiers were searching, and after a time he
reached the sea, and got safely away to France.

[Illustration: PRINCE CHARLIE AT THE BATTLE OF CULLODEN]




=Nelson and Hardy=


Lord Nelson was one of the greatest seamen that ever lived. He commanded
the British fleet at the battle of Trafalgar, when the navies of France
and Spain were beaten, and England was saved from a great danger. He did
not look like a famous admiral on board his ship, the _Victory_, that
day. He was a small man, and his clothes were shabby. He had lost one
arm and one eye in battle; but with the eye which remained he could see
more than most men with two, and his brain was busy planning the course
of the coming fight. Just before it began, he went over his ship, giving
orders to the crew, and cheering them with kind words, which touched the
hearts of the rough men, who loved their leader and were proud of him.
"England expects every man to do his duty" was the last message he sent
them. Every man did his duty nobly that day, though the battle was
fierce and long; but it was the last fight of the brave commander. He
was shot in the back as he walked the deck with his friend Captain
Hardy, and was carried below.

He lay dying for several hours, but, in spite of his great pain, his one
thought was of the battle. "How goes the day with us?" he asked of
Hardy; and when told that many of the enemies' ships were taken, he
cried eagerly, "I am glad. Whip them, Hardy, as they have never been
whipped before." Later, when his friend came to tell him that the
victory was won, Nelson pressed his hand. "Good-bye, Hardy!" said he, "I
have done my duty, and I thank God for it." These were the last words of
one of England's bravest sons.

[Illustration: NELSON ON THE "VICTORY" AT TRAFALGAR]




=Watt and the Kettle=


There was once a little Scotch boy named James Watt. He was not a strong
child, and could not always run and play with other boys, but had often
to amuse himself at home. One holiday afternoon little James amused
himself in this way. He held a saucer over the stream of steam which
came from the spout of a boiling kettle, and as he watched he saw little
drops of water forming on the saucer. He thought this was very strange,
and wondered why it happened, for he did not know that steam is just
water changed in form by the heat, and that as soon as it touches
something cold it turns again into water. He asked his aunt to explain
it, but she only told him not to waste his time. If she could have
foreseen the work which her nephew would do when he became a man, she
would not have thought he was wasting his time.

When James Watt grew up, he was as much interested in steam and its
wonderful power, as he had been as a boy. He was sure it could be made
of great service to men. It was already used for driving engines, but
the engines were not good, and it cost much money to work them. Watt
thought they could be improved, but it was long before he found out the
way to do this. Often, he sat by the fire watching the lid of the kettle
as it was made to dance by the steam, and thinking of many plans; and at
last a happy thought came to him. His plan enabled great improvements to
be made in the working of engines, and now steam drives our trains and
ships, our mills and factories, and is one of our most useful servants.

[Illustration: WATCHING THE BOILING KETTLE]




=Queen Victoria and her Soldiers=


Queen Victoria was always proud of her brave soldiers. In time of war,
she gave orders that news of them was to be sent to her every day, and
when the generals returned home, they were commanded to visit her, and
to tell her of the bravery of the troops.

During the long war with the Russians in the Crimea, the British
soldiers suffered greatly from the freezing winds, and rain, and snow,
of that cold land. When Queen Victoria heard of this, she and her
children worked with their own hands to make warm clothing for them. A
great many of the wounded and sick men were sent home in ships, to be
nursed in the English hospitals, and the Queen paid several visits to
the poor fellows as they lay there. Moving from one bed to another, she
cheered them with hopeful words, and listened gladly to their stories of
the battles in which they had fought. When she saw that the hospitals
were crowded, and not very comfortable, she told Parliament that better
ones ought to be provided, and after a time this was done, and the fine
hospital of Netley was built, of which the Queen laid the first stone.

Once, Queen Victoria herself gave medals to some wounded and disabled
soldiers who had fought very bravely. Some of these men could not raise
their arms to salute their queen; some could not walk, but had to be
wheeled in chairs to her side; but all were proud to receive their
medals of honour from her hands.

"Noble fellows," she wrote of them afterwards, "I feel as if they were
my own children."

[Illustration: QUEEN VICTORIA VISITS HER WOUNDED SOLDIERS]




=The Relief of Lucknow=


During the time of the terrible Indian Mutiny, when most of the native
troops rose against their British rulers, and vowed to kill every white
person in the land, many cruel deeds were done. A great number of white
people were slain before the British troops could come to their rescue,
but in some places they managed to hold out until help reached them.
This was the case in the city of Lucknow, where the British governor
with a small body of troops, and a great many women and children, took
refuge in the Government House from a vast host of rebels who came to
attack them. Many of the brave defenders were killed by the shot and
shell of the enemy. Many others, and especially the little children,
fell sick and died, for the heat was very great, and there was no good
water to be had. Then, after many days, a small body of white soldiers
fought their way into the city, and brought help and hope to the rest of
the party. They were only just in time. Had they come a few days later
they would have found the Government House a heap of ruins, and their
friends dead, for the rebels were making a mine under the building and
meant to blow it up with gunpowder. But alas! the newcomers were not
strong enough to fight their way out of Lucknow with a crowd of helpless
women and children and sick folk, so they, too were now shut in. For two
months longer they held out. Then at last, when they had almost lost
hope, the great Sir Colin Campbell with his brave Highlanders and other
soldiers defeated the rebels, and brought the band of sick, starving,
and weary people safely away.

[Illustration: THE HIGHLANDERS ENTERING LUCKNOW]




=Grace Darling=


On a small rocky island, off the north coast of England, there is a
lighthouse. A man named William Darling was once keeper of this
lighthouse, and his daughter Grace lived with him. Every day Grace
Darling helped her father to trim the lamps, so that at night they might
shine brightly, and warn sailors to steer their ships away from the
dangerous rocks, upon which they would have been dashed to pieces.

One stormy night Grace woke with the sound of screams in her ears. The
screams came from the sea, so she knew that some ship must be in
distress. She roused her father, but they could see nothing in the
darkness. When daylight came, they found that a ship had been wrecked
upon the rocks some way off, and a few people were clinging to the
masts. Grace wished to go at once in a boat to save them; but at first
her father hung back, for the wind and sea were wild, and he feared
that the small boat would be overturned by the great waves. Then Grace
ran to the boat, and seized an oar, for she could not bear to let the
poor men die without trying to save them; and the father could not let
his brave, daughter go alone, so he followed, and they rowed off.

It was hard work pulling against the strong sea, and several times the
small boat was almost sunk. But at last it reached the wreck, and
William Darling managed to land upon the rock, and with great care and
skill helped the half-frozen people into the small boat. Then they were
taken to the lighthouse, where Grace warmed and fed them, until the
storm ceased, and they could return to their homes.

[Illustration: GRACE DARLING ROWS OUT TO THE WRECK]




=David Livingstone=


At one time many people believed that the middle of Africa was a sandy
desert, where nothing could live but camels and ostriches. But they were
mistaken. The great traveller, David Livingstone, journeyed into this
unknown country, and he found that it was not a desert but a beautiful
land, where many tribes of black people dwelt. He also saw that these
people were often seized by strangers, and taken away to be sold as
slaves. This sight filled him with sadness, and he made up his mind to
put a stop to this cruel traffic. He worked hard, tracing the courses of
the rivers, finding the best tracts of land, and teaching the natives.
Then he urged his countrymen to send others after him to settle in this
fair country, to help the natives to learn useful trades, and to drive
away the slave-merchants.

For some years he was quite alone, with his black servants, in the midst
of this wild land. His friends grew anxious, and sent Mr. Stanley,
another great traveller, to look for him. Stanley marched for nearly a
year before he found Livingstone. The old explorer was white and worn
with sickness and hardship, and he was overjoyed to clasp once more the
hand of a white man, and to hear again the English tongue. But he would
not return to England. He said his work was not yet done, and he set out
once more on his travels. It was his last journey. One morning his
servants found him dead upon his bed. Since that time much has been done
to make Central Africa a prosperous land. Other white men have followed
where Livingstone led, and wherever they have settled, the wicked
slave-trade has been stopped.

[Illustration: THE MEETING OF STANLEY AND LIVINGSTONE]




=The Battle of Waterloo=


Fields of waving corn, green woods, fruitful orchards, a pretty
farmhouse and a few cottages--such was the plain of Waterloo. And there,
on a summer Sunday, nearly a hundred years ago, was fought a famous
battle, in which the British troops under the Duke of Wellington beat
the French army, and broke the power of the great Napoleon for ever.

"We have them," cried Napoleon as he saw the British drawn up before
him. He thought it would be easy to destroy this army, so much smaller
than his own, before their friends the Prussians, who were on the way to
help them, came up. But he was mistaken. Wellington had placed his
foot-soldiers in squares, and though the French horsemen, then the
finest soldiers in the world, charged again and again, these little
clumps of brave men stood fast. On his favourite horse "Copenhagen",
Wellington rode to and fro cheering his men. "Stand firm, my lads,"
cried he. "What will they say to this in England?"

Not till evening, when the Prussians came, would he allow them to charge
the French in their turn. Then, waving his cocked hat over his head, he
gave the order, "The whole line will advance", and the impatient troops
dashed forward. The French bravely tried to stand against this terrific
charge, but they were beaten back, and the battle of Waterloo was ended.

Sixty thousand men lay dead or wounded under the fruit-trees, and among
the trampled corn and grass at the end of that terrible day.

[Illustration: BRITISH SOLDIERS AT THE BATTLE OF WATERLOO]

[Illustration: THE CHARGE OF THE LIGHT BRIGADE]




=The Charge of the Light Brigade=


Forward the Light!

Such was the order given during a great battle to the leader of a band
of six hundred British soldiers. Forward! And there in front was a line
of cannon ready to shoot them down as they came, while on the hills on
either side of the valley were the guns and riflemen of the Russians.

"Surely someone has blundered! My men are sent to certain death,"
thought the leader of the Light Brigade.

"Forward! Attack!"

The order was repeated, and with the obedience of well-trained soldiers
the Brigade started.

  "Theirs not to make reply,
   Theirs not to reason why,
   Theirs but to do and die:
   Into the valley of Death
   Rode the six hundred."

On every side thundered the enemy's guns, and shot and shell fell thick
and fast, but on through all rode the brave horsemen, on till they
reached the cannon at the end of the valley. The smoke of the enemy's
fire closed round and hid them from their watching comrades, but now and
again the scarlet lines could be seen cutting down those who tried to
stop their charge.

  "Flashed all their sabres bare,
   Flashed as they turned in air,
   Sabring the gunners there,
   Charging an army, while
   All the world wonder'd."

[Illustration: AFTERMATH OF BATTLE°]

And then only, when the strange order had been obeyed, when their duty
had been nobly done in the face of death, did the Light Brigade--all
that was left of it--turn to ride back. Alas! there were not then six
hundred. Barely two hundred brave men, wounded, and blackened by smoke
and powder, reached the British camp. The rest of the noble band lay
dead or dying in the valley of Death.

  "When can their glory fade?
   O the wild charge they made!
   All the world wonder'd.
   Honour the charge they made!
   Honour the Light Brigade,
   Noble six hundred!"




=The Coronation of King Edward VII=


Never had a country a more popular king than King Edward VII, nor a more
gracious queen than Queen Alexandra, and never was a happier day for the
English people than that on which King Edward was crowned. A few days
before the date fixed for the Coronation the king suddenly became ill,
and a great gloom fell over the country, for it was feared that he might
never be crowned. But though his illness was severe he soon began to get
better, and when he was out of danger the hearts of his subjects were
filled with joy and thankfulness. Guns were fired, church-bells pealed,
and glad shouts and cheers rang out from the happy crowds which lined
the streets of London, through which the king and queen, in the midst of
their gay procession, drove to Westminster Abbey.

Inside the gray old Abbey was one of the most brilliant gatherings the
world has ever seen. Princes and princesses from other lands were there,
in their robes of state; peers and peeresses, in velvet, and ermine, and
glittering diamonds; grave statesmen; and soldiers in their gay
uniforms.

It was a grand and solemn scene when, before them all, the aged
Archbishop of Canterbury drew near to the King, and with trembling hands
placed the crown upon his head.

"The Lord give you a fruitful country, and healthful seasons, victorious
fleets and armies, and a quiet Empire." These are the words that the old
man said when he had crowned the king, and each one of us will pray that
all these blessings may indeed rest upon King Edward VII, and the great
Empire over which he rules.

[Illustration: KING EDWARD VII AND QUEEN ALEXANDRA]




=WAR.=


  Over the broad, fair valley,
    Filling the heart with fear,
  Comes the sound of tramping horses,
    And the news of danger near.

  'Tis the enemy approaching,
    One can hear the muffled drum,
  And the marching of the soldiers,
    As on and on they come.

  Soon the air is rent in sunder,
    Bullets flying sharp and fast,
  Many stout hearts fail and tremble,
    Every moment seems their last.

  On the ground lie dead and dying,
    Young and old alike must fall;
  None to come and aid the sufferer,
    Fight they must for freedom's call.

  Many are the anxious loved ones
    Praying for the war to cease,
  Waiting for the right to conquer,
    Bringing freedom, rest, and peace.

  E.S.

[Illustration: SPYING ON INDIANS°]




A BOY'S HEROIC DEEDS.


May 31st, 1889, is a day that will long be remembered with horror by the
people in the beautiful valley of the Conemaugh, in Pennsylvania. On
that date occurred the terrible disaster which is known to the world and
will be named in history as the "Johnstown Flood."

[Illustration: SAVED FROM THE FLOOD.]

For many days previous to that date it had been raining hard, and great
floods extended over a vast region of country in Pennsylvania, New York
and the District of Columbia. Never before had there been such a fall of
rain in that region within the memory of the oldest inhabitant. The
waters in the river and creeks of that beautiful valley rose rapidly and
overflowed their banks, while the people looked on in wonder, but
seemingly not in fear. Suddenly there appeared to their wondering gaze a
great bay horse galloping at break-neck speed and bearing a rider who
waved his hands to them and cried: "South Fork dam will burst. To the
hills for your lives." Only a few heeded his words of warning, while
many mocked and jeered. On dashed the rider to warn still others of the
impending danger, and, alas, to be himself and horse dashed to death by
the massive timbers of a falling bridge. South Fork dam did break, and
the mighty waters of Conemaugh Lake were hurled with resistless force
upon the doomed people of that beautiful valley. The terrible details of
the appalling disaster would fill several volumes larger than this. On
rushed the mighty waters, sweeping onward in their flood dwellings,
churches and buildings of every description, whether of wood, brick or
stone, until Johnstown was reached and destroyed. The town was literally
lifted from its foundations. Thousands of men, women and children were
caught up and swirled away in the pitiless flood, and their agonizing
but vain appeals for help could be heard amidst the mighty roar of the
waters. Many acts of heroism were performed by brave men and women--yes,
and boys--in rescuing victims of the flood. Only one of them concerns us
here. Charles Hepenthal, a schoolboy, seventeen years of age, who was on
his way to Bellefonte from his home at East Liberty, Pa., on the evening
of the flood, stood quietly among the passengers on the express train,
as they crowded to view the terrible havoc done by the flood. As the
flood reached the train, at Sang Hollow, a small frame house came
pitching down the mad tide, an eddy floated it in, near to the train, so
close that the wailing cries of an infant were heard, piercing their way
through the roar. Charles Hepenthal's heart was touched and his courage
was equal to the emergency. He determined to rescue that little wailing
waif from a watery grave. Strong men urged him to desist, insisting that
he would only sacrifice his own life for nothing--that it was impossible
for any one to survive in the surging waters. But the boy was resolved.
He cut the bell cord from the cars, tied it fast to his body, and out
into the whirling gulf he went; he gained the house, secured the infant
and returned through the maddened waters with the rescued babe in his
arms. A shout went up from the passengers on the train. "Wait!" he
cried; "there is still another in the house, I must save her!" and,
seizing a plank to use as a support, he plunged again into the surging
waters. Ah! his struggle this time was harder, for his precious load was
heavy. In the floating house on his first visit he found a little girl,
apparently ten years old, disrobed and kneeling beside her bed, on which
lay the screaming infant, praying to her Father in heaven to save her
and her baby brother from the fury of the flood. "God has heard my
prayer," she cried, as Charles entered the door. "Oh, save the baby,
quick," and then fainted away on the floor. When Charles had landed the
babe in safety and returned again for the girl, he found her still
unconscious on the floor, and the water was fast flowing in at the door.
In another minute she would have been drowned. But the brave boy's manly
arms were soon around her, and with his precious load the young hero
fought his way back to land and was given three times three cheers and a
"tiger" by the passengers of the day express.




A CAT'S EXTRAORDINARY LEAP.


In the latter part of 1880, at a time when the Washington monument had
reached a height of 160 feet, an adventurous and patriotic cat ascended
the interior of the shaft by means of the ropes and tubing. When the
workmen arrived at the upper landing the next morning, and began to
prepare for the day's work, pussy took fright and, springing to the
outer edge, took a "header" of 160 feet to the hard earth below. In the
descent which was watched closely by two score of men, the cat spread
herself out like a flying squirrel and alighted on all fours. After
turning over on the ground a few times in a dazed manner, she prepared
to leave the grounds and had gotten almost beyond the shadow of the
monument, when a dog belonging to one of the workmen pounced upon her
and killed her, she, of course, not being in her best running trim,
after performing such an extraordinary feat. One of the men procured the
body of the dead feline, smoothed out her silky coat, and turned the
remains over to a representative of the Smithsonian Institution, who
mounted the skin and placed it under a glass case. The label on the case
tells this wonderful story in a few words: "This cat on September 23,
1880, jumped from the top of Washington's monument and lived."

[Illustration: Queen Boadicea]




=A Brave Queen=


Long ago, when this country was a wild land, there lived a beautiful and
brave queen named Boadicea.

Her husband, the king, was dead, but she had two daughters whom she
loved very much.

Boadicea was queen of a part of Britain. There were no large towns in
her land, but there were forests of fine trees, and fields of corn, and
wide stretches of grass-land where many cattle and sheep roamed and fed.

Her people were called Iceni. They were tall and strong, with blue eyes
and yellow hair. The men were brave fighters and good hunters. They
hunted the bears and wolves which lived in the forests, and they fought
the foes of their beautiful queen.

They made spears to fight with, and strange carts called war-chariots to
fight in. These chariots were drawn by swift horses, and, upon the
wheels, long sharp knives were fixed. The Iceni drove the chariots very
fast among their foes, and the knives cut down and killed many of them.

The Romans from over the sea were the most dangerous enemies of Boadicea
and her people.

In those days the Romans were the best fighters, and the strongest and
wisest people in the world. They came in ships to Britain. They had been
told that it was a good country, and they hoped to take it for
themselves. Some of them came to Boadicea's land, and took a part of it
and of her riches. And when she tried to stop them from doing this, they
seized her and the two princesses and beat them cruelly.

This wicked act made the Iceni very angry. From all parts of the land,
fierce fighting-men came marching in haste to avenge themselves on their
enemies, bringing with them their spears and their war-chariots. When
all were gathered together, they fell upon the Romans.

There were so many of them, and they were so fierce, that the Romans
could not stand against them. Thousands were killed, and the rest ran
away to their ships.

But there were many more Romans in other parts of Britain, and when
these heard how their friends had been beaten, they came marching in
haste to punish the Iceni.

The Iceni did their best to get ready to defend themselves, but many of
their brave men had been slain and others were wounded and weary, so
they could not hope again to win a victory over their strong foes.
Before the battle, Queen Boadicea, with her fair hair waving in the
wind, stood before her soldiers and spoke to them. She told them of the
wrong which the Romans had done, and begged them to fight bravely for
their country. Then she got into her chariot, and with her daughters
lying at her feet, drove to and fro, so that all might see them.

And the soldiers shouted, and promised to fight to the end for their
brave queen.

They did fight long and bravely, until most of them were killed, but
their foes were too strong for them. When Queen Boadicea saw that her
brave soldiers were beaten, she drank some poison which killed her. She
thought it better to die than to be again taken prisoner by the cruel
Romans.

[Illustration: QUEEN BOADICEA AND HER SOLDIERS]




=King Alfred and the Cakes=


Once, when good King Alfred of England was forced to flee from his
strong foes the Danes, he hid himself in a wood. In this wood, there was
a small cottage, and Alfred asked the woman who lived there if he might
go in and rest.

Now the woman did not know the king, but she saw that he was an English
soldier, and that he was very tired, so she let him come in and sit in
her kitchen.

Upon the hearth before the fire, some cakes were baking, and the woman
told the stranger that if he watched them, and took care that they did
not burn, she would give him some supper. Then she went away to do her
work.

At first, King Alfred watched the cakes carefully; when they were well
cooked on one side he turned the other to the fire. But, after a time,
he began to think of his country, and of his poor people, and then he
forgot his task.

When the woman came back, the cakes were black and burnt. "You are an
idle fellow," cried she angrily. "You would be quite ready to eat the
cakes, but you will not take the trouble to watch them."

While she was loudly scolding, her husband came home. He knew King
Alfred. "Hush, wife!" cried he. "It is our noble lord the king!"

When the woman heard this, she was much afraid, and she begged Alfred to
forgive her.

The king smiled, and said: "I will gladly forgive you for your scolding,
good wife, if you will forgive me for spoiling your supper."

[Illustration: KING ALFRED FORGETS THE CAKES]




=Not Angles, but Angels=


In old days the people of England were not all free, as they are now.
Sometimes young men, and women, and little children were sold as slaves,
and had to work hard for their masters.

Many of these slaves were sent to Rome, for the Romans thought the tall,
fair Angles very beautiful, and liked to have them as their servants.

Once, a wise and good preacher, named Gregory, was walking through the
market-place in Rome, when he saw a group of slaves standing there,
waiting to be bought. Among these slaves were some pretty boys with long
yellow hair, and blue eyes, and white skin. This was a strange sight to
Gregory, for most of the people in his land had dark hair, and brown
skin.

"Who are these boys?" asked he of a man who was standing by.

"They are Angles from over the sea," replied the man.

"Surely not Angles, but Angels," said the preacher, looking kindly into
the boys' faces. "Do they come from England?"

"From heathen England, where men do not know the true God," said the
man.

"Some day they shall be taught to know God, and then indeed they shall
be angels," said Gregory.

Now Gregory did not go away and forget this. When he became a great man
and Bishop of Rome, he sent a good preacher, named Augustine, to
England, to preach to the people there, and to teach them to be
Christians.

[Illustration: THE ENGLISH PRISONERS AT ROME]




=Hereward the Wake=


When William of Normandy came over the sea, and took the crown of
England, many English people would not call him king. The young lord
Hereward was one of these. He and his men made for themselves a "Camp of
Refuge" among the reeds and rushes on the marshes. All day they lay
there, hidden from view by the mists which rose from the watery ground,
and at night they came out, and attacked the Normans in their tents, and
burned their towns.

Hereward was called "the Wake" because he was so watchful and wide-awake
that the Normans could not catch him. They were always trying to find
him, but they did not know the safe paths over the marshes which he and
his men used, and when they tried to cross, they sank with their horses
in the soft muddy ground, and had to turn back.

But at last a false friend of the English showed them the way to the
"Camp of Refuge", and then Hereward had to flee to save his life. He
went with a few friends to the sea-shore, and there he found some
fishermen who were going to sell fish to the Norman guards in an English
town.

The fishermen took Hereward and his men into their boats, and covered
them with straw; then they set sail. The Norman guards bought the fish
as usual, and had it served for dinner. While they were eating it, the
English soldiers came quietly from the boats, and killed most of them
before they could get their swords to defend themselves. When the
English people in the place saw this, they gladly joined Hereward and
made him master of their town.

[Illustration: HEREWARD AND HIS MEN ATTACK THE NORMANS]




=Canute=


There was once a king of England, named Canute, who was a brave and
clever man. But he had many lords in his court who were very foolish.
They feared their master, and wished to please him, and because they
knew that he was somewhat vain of his strength and cleverness, they
thought he would like to be told that he was great, and wise, and
powerful.

So they praised him every day, and told him that all he did and all he
said was good. They said he was the greatest king on earth, and there
was nothing in the world too hard for him to do if he chose. At last
King Canute tired of their vain words.

One day, as he walked with his lords on the sea-shore, one of them told
him that even the waves would obey him.

"Bring a chair," said Canute, "and place it close to the water."

The chair was brought, and set upon the sand, and the king sat down and
spoke to the waves.

"I command you to come no farther," cried he.

But the waves came on and on, until they wetted Canute's feet, and
splashed his chair.

Then the king rose and went to his lords, who were standing a little way
off, staring at their master, and talking in low tones about his strange
conduct.

"Learn from this to keep your tongues from idle praise," said he
sternly. "No king is great and powerful but God. He only can say to the
sea: 'Thus far shalt thou come, and no farther.'"

[Illustration: CANUTE ORDERS THE TIDE TO STOP]




=The Brave Men of Calais=


Many years ago, King Edward III of England took the town of Calais from
the French king. He could not take it by force, for the walls were very
strong, but he succeeded by another plan. He placed his soldiers all
round the walls, and would let no one go into the town to take food to
the people. Inside the walls, the people waited bravely, but at last all
their food was eaten, and then they knew that if they tried to hold the
town any longer they would starve.

So the governor sent word to King Edward that he would give up the city,
and begged him to have mercy on the people.

But Edward was angry. "Tell your masters," said he to the messenger,
"that I will not spare the people unless six of the chief men come out
to me, with their feet bare, and ropes around their necks."

At this sad news, the poor starving people cried aloud. But soon six
brave men were found who were ready to die for their countrymen, and,
with their feet bare and ropes around their necks, they went out to the
place where King Edward was waiting, with Queen Philippa and the English
nobles.

"Great king!" said the men, "we bring you the keys of our town, and we
pray you to have mercy on us."

But the king would not listen. "Take them away and cut off their heads,"
he cried angrily. And when his nobles begged him to spare such brave
enemies he would not listen to them.

[Illustration: QUEEN PHILIPPA PLEADS FOR THE MEN OF CALAIS]

Then Queen Philippa, whose heart was filled with pity for the poor men,
fell upon her knees.

"My lord," she cried, "if you love me, give me the lives of these men."

King Edward could not bear to see his beautiful queen in tears upon the
ground, so he raised her, saying: "Lady, I wish you had not been here,
for I cannot say you nay. Take the men, they are yours."

Then Queen Philippa joyfully led the brave men away, and gave them food
and clothes, and sent them back to their friends. So they, and all the
people of Calais, were saved.

[Illustration: THE MEN OF CALAIS ARE SPARED°]

[Illustration: WAT TYLER°]




=Wat Tyler=


In our days, all people in our land, except prisoners, are free to go
where they will, and to do what work they please. In olden times it was
not so. Then, the poorer people were treated like slaves by the nobles;
they had to work hard for their masters, and they were not allowed to
move from one place to another without asking leave.

This was hard, and it made the people very angry. In the days of the
boy-king Richard II, a great many workmen made up their minds to obey
the nobles no longer. They banded themselves together in a large army,
chose a man named Wat Tyler for their leader, and marched to London.

The Mayor of London tried to stop them, by pulling up the drawbridge
which crossed the river Thames, but they forced him by threats to let it
down again. Then they rushed through the streets of London, frightening
all the people they met by their wild looks and cries. They broke open
the prisons, and set the prisoners free, and burned the palaces of the
nobles, but they killed no man and robbed none.

The nobles were much alarmed. With young King Richard at their head,
they rode out to meet this army, and to ask the people what they wanted.

"We want to be free, and we want our children to be free after us," said
Wat Tyler.

"I promise you that you shall have your wish, if you will return quietly
to your homes," said the king.

At this, the people shouted with joy, and all might have been well; but
the mayor, seeing Wat Tyler raise his hand, and fearing that he was
going to strike the king, drew his sword, and killed the leader of the
people.

Then the joyful shouts changed to cries and growls of anger. Arms were
raised, and the crowd began to press forward. In a minute the little
band of nobles would have been attacked, but the boy-king saw the
danger. Boldly riding to meet the angry people, he put himself at their
head. "What need ye, my masters?" cried he. "I am your captain and your
king. Follow me."

The crowd stopped, surprised by this bold act; the loud cries ceased,
and swords and staves were lowered. These rough men did not wish to harm
their young sovereign, but to free him from the nobles who gave him evil
counsel. They were greatly pleased to find him upon their side, and,
with perfect trust and loyalty, they followed where he led; and so for a
time the danger was past.

[Illustration: YOUNG KING RICHARD QUELLS THE REBELLION]




=Bruce and the Spider=


Robert Bruce, King of Scotland, sad and weary, lay upon the floor of a
lonely cave among the hills. His mind was full of anxious thoughts, for
he was hiding from the English soldiers, who sought to take him--alive
or dead--to their king. The brave Scots had lost many battles, and Bruce
began to fear that he would never make his dear country free.

"I will give up trying," said he.

Just then a spider, hanging from the roof of the cave, by a long thread,
swung before the king's eyes, and he left his gloomy thoughts to see
what the little creature would do.

The spider began to climb its thread slowly, pulling itself up little by
little; but it had gone only a short way, when it slipped and fell to
the end once more.

Again and again it started to climb, and again and again it slipped
back, until it had fallen six times.

"Surely the silly little creature will now give up trying to climb so
fine a thread," thought Bruce. But the spider did no such thing. It
started on its upward journey yet a seventh time, and this time it did
not fall. Up it went, inch by inch, higher and higher, until at last it
reached the roof, and was safely at home.

"Bravo!" cried the king. "The spider has taught me a lesson. I too will
try until I win."

Bruce kept his word. He led his brave men to battle, again and again,
until at last the English were driven back to their own land, and
Scotland was free.

[Illustration: BRUCE WATCHING THE SPIDER]

[Illustration: RICHARD LION HEART FIGHTING IN THE HOLY LAND]




=Richard and Blondel=


In a gloomy prison, in a foreign land, lay Richard I, King of England.
He had been with some other kings to a great war in the Holy Land, where
he had won battles, and taken cities, and gained much honour. Men called
him Richard Lion-heart, because he was as brave as a lion in fighting,
and his soldiers loved him and would follow him into any danger. One
strong city, called Acre, held out for nearly two years against the
armies of the other kings, but when Richard arrived it gave way almost
at once.

Because of his bravery, and his many victories, all men praised King
Richard, and this made some of the other kings hate him, for they were
jealous that he should have more honour than they. When he was on his
way back to England, one of these envious men seized him secretly, and
threw him into prison.

And now poor Richard could fight no more, nor could he see the blue sky,
and the green fields which he loved. One day, as he sat sad and lonely
in his prison, he heard a voice singing, beneath the window. He started.
"Surely," said he, "that is the voice of my old friend Blondel, and that
is the song we used to sing together." When the song was ended, the king
sang it again in a low voice. Then there was a joyful cry from the man
outside, and Richard knew that it was indeed his friend.

Blondel had journeyed many days seeking his lost master. Now he hastened
to England, and told the people where to find their king, and very soon
Richard was set free, and went back to his own land.

[Illustration: BLONDEL SINGS BENEATH RICHARD'S WINDOW]




=The White Ship=


The night was dark, and a stormy wind was blowing, when the _White Ship_
set sail from the shore of France. Prince William of England and his
sister and their young friends were going back to their own land, after
a visit to the French king.

The English king, Henry I, with his courtiers, had sailed earlier, and
had now almost reached home. But the prince would not go with them, he
wished to make merry before starting.

There had been eating, and drinking, and dancing, and singing on board
the _White Ship_, and everyone was merry.

But the sailors had drunk so much wine that they could not see to steer
aright. Soon there was a crash, and the ship trembled. It had struck a
rock, and was sinking.

Then the sounds of merriment were changed to cries of fear. "Save us!"
shrieked the terrified people. "Save the prince," cried the captain,
"the rest of us must die!" There was only one small boat on the ship,
and Prince William was put into this, and rowed away. But he had not
gone far, when he heard his sister crying to him to save her.

"Go back!" shouted he. The boat was rowed back, but when it came near
the ship, so many people jumped into it, that it was overturned and all
in it were drowned.

Soon the _White Ship_ sank also, and of all the gay company upon it only
one man was saved.

When King Henry heard that his only son was dead, he was very sorrowful,
and it is said that no man ever again saw a smile upon his face.

[Illustration: PRINCE WILLIAM RETURNS TO SAVE HIS SISTER]




=Joan of Arc=


In a village in the green country of France, there once lived a girl
named Joan. She spent her days in sewing and spinning, and in minding
her father's sheep.

At that time there was a sad war in France, and the English had won many
battles. Joan was grieved to hear of the trouble of her country. She
thought of it night and day, and one night she dreamt that an angel
came, and told her to go and help the French prince.

When Joan told her friends of this dream, they laughed at her.

"How can a poor girl help the prince?" asked they.

"I do not know," replied Joan; "but I must go, for God has sent me." So
she went to the prince, and said: "Sir, my name is Joan. God has sent me
to help you to win the crown of France."

They gave Joan a suit of white armour, and a white horse, and set her at
the head of the army. She led the soldiers to fight, and the rough men
thought she was an angel, and fought so bravely that they won many
battles.

Then the prince was crowned King of France.

When this was done, Joan felt that her work was over. "I would that I
might go and keep sheep once more with my sisters and my brothers; they
would be so glad to see me," pleaded she. But the king would not let her
go. So Joan stayed; but her time of victory was past. Soon, she was
taken prisoner by the English, and cruelly burned to death. She died as
bravely as she had lived, and her name will never be forgotten.

[Illustration: JOAN AT THE HEAD OF THE ARMY]




AFLOAT WITH A TIGER.


A traveler in faraway India relates the following thrilling adventure
with a tiger: From the heavy rain which falls upon Indian mountains the
low-lying country is liable to such sudden floods that every year many
beasts, and even human beings, are drowned ere they can make their
escape to the higher grounds. On one occasion a terrible flood came up
so suddenly that I had to spend a day and night in an open canoe in
consequence, during which time I had good opportunities of seeing the
good and bad effects produced by them. I lived at the time in a mat
house, situated upon a hill which I supposed was quite above high-water
mark, but an old Mahometan gentleman having told me that, when he was a
little boy, he recollected the water once rising higher than the hill, I
took the precaution of keeping a canoe in a small ditch close at hand.

The rainy season began, and daily the river rose higher. One morning we
noticed that the mountain tops were covered with heavy banks of dark
clouds, though no rain fell out on the plain where we were; but we
noticed many animals, a leopard among others, sneak out of the high
grass and make for hilly ground. The most curious thing, however, was
the smart manner in which rats and even grasshoppers came scampering
away from the threatening danger. These latter came in such crowds
toward my bungalow that not only the fowls about the premises had a good
feed on them, but kites and crows began to swoop down in such numbers
that the air was filled with their cries and the noise of their rushing
wings.

[Illustration: AFLOAT WITH A TIGER°]

While watching the immense destruction of these insects we were
startled by the outbreak of the thunderstorm high up on the mountains,
but far above the peals of thunder rose the terrible sound of rushing
water. Animals now came tearing out of the lowlands too terrified to
notice whither they went, so that I stood ready, gun in hand, in case
any of the dangerous kind should try to seek an asylum on my particular
hill; but with the exception of a huge wild boar, who had to be shot as
he charged up the slope, all took refuge elsewhere.

Soon the water burst through the river bank, spreading over the country,
sweeping down the tall grass jungle and surging and roaring round our
hill. Packing all that was valuable in small parcels, we gathered them
in a heap, hoping that the flood would subside ere it reached the
building. All round about large trees, uprooted by the terrible force of
the deluge, were swept along, several animals vainly trying to keep a
footing among their roots and branches. At last the water reached the
steps of the house; so, pulling our boat close up, we stepped in with
what we could save and hung to the wooden posts of the building, vainly
trusting that the worst had come; but it was not so, for we soon had to
leave go the post and pass the boat's rope round a tree. The water then
rushed in, the house toppled over, and it and its contents were swept
away by the flood.

In a short time the tree began to shake and bend, so we knew that it was
being uprooted; therefore, letting go the rope, we launched forth upon
the seething waste of waters and were whirled away. Onward we rushed
through masses of logs, branches, the remains of houses, and such like
wreck, having to be very careful that our frail vessel did not get upset
or crushed. Twice we made for the tops of hills that showed themselves
above water, but on approaching them we found that they had been taken
possession of by wild animals.

Here a tiger crouched on a branch of a tree, seemingly too much alarmed
at his perilous position to molest the half-dozen deer that crowded
timidly together right underneath his perch. Up above him the smaller
branches were stocked with monkeys, who looked very disconsolate at
their enforced imprisonment. As we swept past, the tiger raised his
head, gave a deep growl and showed his teeth, then crouched down again
as if fully aware of his helplessness, and we had too much to think of
ourselves to interfere with him.

Gaining the open country, the scene was one of desolation; but the
current was not so strong, so we turned round, seeing the flood was
going down, and by nightfall we had got back to where the house had
stood. Every vestige of the once pretty homestead had disappeared, with
sheep and cattle, though the fowls had managed to find a roost on the
topmost branches of some orange trees, which alone remained to mark the
spot.

As the moon rose, the mountaineers came down from the villages, and,
embarking on rafts and in canoes, went round the different hills,
shooting and spearing the animals that had swum there; and truly the
sight of such a hunting scene was an exciting one. Here a stout stag,
defending himself with his antlers as best he might against the
spearsmen, kept up a gallant fight till death.

The tiger we had seen in the morning took to swimming, and on being
wounded with a spear turned on the nearest canoe, upsetting the hunters
into the water, where a desperate encounter took place; but he was
eventually dispatched by a blow from an ax--not, however, before he had
clawed some of his pursuers most severely.

At daylight the water had entirely gone down, and a thick, muddy deposit
covered all the lowland, while an immense number of snakes, scorpions,
and other unpleasant creatures lay dead in all directions, upon which
and the drowned animals vultures, crows and kites were feeding.




=Queen Margaret and the Robbers.=


There were once two kings of England at the same time. One was Henry VI.
He was the rightful king, but a very weak and feeble man, and quite
unfit to rule his kingdom.

The other was young Edward, Duke of York, called Edward IV. He was made
king by some of the nobles, who grew weary of Henry and his foolish
deeds.

A number of the English people were faithful to King Henry, but many
others went over to King Edward's side, and there were quarrels between
the two parties, which ended in a war. This war was called the War of
the Roses, because the followers of Henry wore a red rose as their
badge, and Edward's friends wore a white one.

In one battle, fought at Hexham, the White Roses beat the Red ones, and
King Henry was taken prisoner and sent to the Tower of London. His wife,
Queen Margaret, with her little son, Prince Edward, escaped after the
battle, and hid themselves in a wild forest. As they wandered among the
trees, seeking some place where they might be safe from their enemies,
they met a band of robbers. These rough men took away the queen's money
and her jewels, tearing her necklace from her neck, and her rings from
her fingers. Then they began to dispute as to who should have most of
the stolen goods. And while they quarrelled, Queen Margaret took her
little boy by the hand and ran away to a thick part of the wood. There
they stayed until the angry voices of the robbers could no longer be
heard, and then, in the growing darkness, they came stealthily from
their hiding-place. They wandered on, knowing not where to go, hoping
much to meet some of their friends, and fearing still more to be found
by their enemies, the soldiers of the White Rose. But, alas! they saw no
kind face, and night came on. Then, as they crept fearfully from tree to
tree, they met another robber.

[Illustration: THE ROBBERS DISCOVER QUEEN MARGARET AND THE PRINCE]

The poor queen was much afraid that this robber, who looked very fierce,
would kill her and the prince, because she had no riches left to give
him. In despair she threw herself upon her knees before him, and said:
"My friend, this is the son of your king. I give him into your care."

The robber was much surprised to see the queen and the prince alone,
with their clothes torn and stained, and their faces white from hunger
and fatigue. But he was a kindhearted man, although his looks were
rough, and before he became a robber he had been a follower of King
Henry, so he was quite willing to do his best for the little prince. He
took the boy in his arms, and led the way to a cave in the forest, where
he lived with his wife. And in this poor shelter, the queen and her son
stayed for two days, listening to every sound, and fearing that their
enemies would find them. On the third day, however, the friendly robber
met some of the lords of the Red Rose in the forest, and led them to the
cave. The queen and prince were overjoyed to see their friends, and soon
they escaped with them to a place of safety.

Their hiding-place has been called "Queen Margaret's Cave" ever since
that time. If you go to Hexham Forest, you will be able to see it.

[Illustration: The Robber brings help to Queen Margaret]




=William Caxton=


In old days, books were not printed as they are now; they were written
by hand. This took a long time to do, so there were not many books, and
they were so dear that only the rich could buy them.

But after a time, some clever men made a machine, called a
printing-press, which could print letters.

About that time, an Englishman, named William Caxton, lived in Holland,
and copied books for a great lady. He says his hand grew tired with
writing, and his eyes became dim with much looking on white paper. So he
learned how to print, and had a printing-press made for himself, which
he brought to England. He set it up in a little shop in London, and then
he began to print books. He printed books of all sorts--tales, and
poetry, and history, and prayers, and sermons. In the time which it had
formerly taken him to write one book, he could now print thousands.

All sorts of people crowded to his shop to see Caxton's wonderful press;
sometimes the king went with his nobles. Many of them took written books
with them, which they wished to have put into print. Some people asked
Caxton to use in his books the most curious words he could find; others
wished him to print only old and homely words. Caxton liked best the
common, simple words which men used daily in their speech.

Caxton did a very good thing when he brought the printing-press to
England, for, after that, books became much cheaper, so that many people
could buy them, and learning spread in the land.

[Illustration: CAXTON IN HIS PRINTING SHOP]




=Sir Philip Sidney=


When Elizabeth was Queen of England it was a time of great deeds and
great men. The queen was brave and clever herself, so she liked to have
brave and clever people around her. Great soldiers, and writers, and
statesmen went to her court; and when brave seamen came back from their
voyages to unknown lands far away, they were invited by the queen to
visit her, and tell her of all the strange places and people they had
seen. In this Elizabeth was wise, for men did their best to show
themselves worthy of her favours.

Among all the great men at court, none was more beloved than Sir Philip
Sidney. He was called "the darling of the court".

[Illustration: SIR PHILIP SIDNEY°]

At that time, there was much trouble and many wars in some other
countries, where people were fighting for the right to worship God in
their own way. Philip Sidney heard of these things when he was a boy in
his father's house, and his heart was stirred with pity. Later, when he
was in France, a great number of people were cruelly killed because they
would not pray in the way which the king ordered. Sidney never forgot
the dreadful sights and sounds of that sad time, and when Queen
Elizabeth sent an army to help the people of Holland, who were fighting
for their freedom, he asked for leave to go with it. This was granted to
him, and he was made one of the leaders.

[Illustration: MARTYRED FOR PRAYING°]

But alas! he went out to die. In one battle, a small band of the English
bravely attacked a large army of their enemies. The horse which Sidney
was riding was killed under him, and as he mounted another, he was shot
in the leg, and his thigh-bone was broken. The horse took fright and
galloped away from the fight, but its wounded and bleeding rider held
to his seat, and when he reached a place of safety was lifted from his
horse, and gently laid upon the ground. He was faint from loss of blood,
and in great pain, and his throat was parched with thirst.

"Bring me water," said he to a friend.

This was not easy to do, for there was not a stream near at hand, and in
order to get to one it would be necessary to pass where the shot from
the enemy's cannons was falling fast. But his friend was brave and went
through the danger. Then he found some water, and brought it to him.
Sidney eagerly held out his hand for the cup, and as he was preparing to
drink, another poor wounded soldier was carried past. This man was
dying; he could not speak, but he looked with longing eyes at the water.
Sir Philip saw the look, and taking the cup from his own lips, passed it
to the soldier, saying: "Thy need is greater than mine." The poor man
quenched his thirst, and blessed him as he died.

Sir Philip lived on for a few weeks, growing weaker every day, but he
never came back to his own land, and the many friends who loved him.

Sidney was great in many ways; very fair to see, very wise and good, and
very clever and witty. He was one of the bravest fighters, one of the
finest poets, and one of the best gentlemen who ever lived. He will
always be remembered for his brave deeds, and his wise sayings, but most
of all do men bless his name for this act of kindness to his poor dying
comrade.

[Illustration: SIR PHILIP SIDNEY AND THE DYING SOLDIER]




=The "Revenge"=


In the days of Queen Elizabeth, English sailors first began to find
their way across the seas to new lands, from which they brought home
many strange, and rich, and beautiful things. The Spaniards sailed
across the seas too, to fetch gold and silver from the mines in Mexico,
which belonged to the King of Spain. Sometimes the English ships met the
Spanish ones, and robbed them of their gold, for it was thought quite
right and fair in those days to take every chance of doing harm to the
enemies of England. Of course the Spaniards hated the English for this,
and whenever they met English ships which were weaker than theirs they
attacked them, and robbed them, killing the sailors, or taking them
prisoners.

Once, a small ship, called the _Revenge_, was sailing home to England,
when it met with fifty great Spanish vessels. The captain of the
_Revenge_ was Sir Richard Grenville, and he had a great many sick men on
board. There was no time to escape from the Spanish ships, which soon
surrounded the little _Revenge_. So there were only two courses which
Sir Richard could take. One was to give up his ship to the Spaniards;
the other was to fight with them till his men were all killed, or his
ship sank.

Some of the sailors wished him to take the first course, but the others,
and all the sick men, said: "Nay, let us fall into the hands of God, and
not into the hands of Spain." This they said because they thought it
better to die, than to be made prisoners by the cruel Spaniards.

Sir Richard made up his mind to fight. It was after noon when the
firing began, and all night long, until daylight came, the little
English ship kept the fifty Spanish vessels at bay. Then it was found
that all the powder was gone, and all the English were dead or dying.
And then only was the flag of the _Revenge_ pulled down, to show that
she surrendered to her enemies.

The brave Sir Richard was taken on board a Spanish ship, where he soon
died of his wounds.

These were his last words: "Here die I, Richard Grenville, with a joyful
and quiet mind, for I have ended my life as a good soldier ought. I have
fought for my country and my queen, for honour, and for God."

[Illustration: DEATH OF SIR RICHARD GRENVILLE°]




=The Pilgrim Fathers=


There was a time when the people of England were not allowed to pray to
God in the way they thought right, but were punished if they did not
worship as the king ordered. This was very hard, and when James I was
king, a little band of brave people, who found that they could not obey
the king, left their country to make a new home across the sea, where
they could be free. They are called the "Pilgrim Fathers".

A hundred people--men, women, and children--set sail in a little ship
called the _Mayflower_ for the new world which a great explorer called
Columbus had discovered away in the west, and which we now call America.
They had a long and stormy voyage, but at last, in mid-winter, they
landed on the shores of North America, and set up their huts.

At first they had much trouble, for the ground was frozen and barren.
They suffered from hunger and sickness, and the wild Indians who lived
in that land came down upon them and tried to drive them away. But the
Pilgrim Fathers did not lose courage. They were free, and they worked
hard, and waited in patience for brighter days. By and by other ships
from England brought food to keep them alive, and more people to help
them. Then they made friends with the Indians, and when spring came they
planted seeds and grew crops for themselves.

After a time many other Englishmen, who wished to be free, followed the
Pilgrim Fathers, and settled in America. They founded the colonies of
New England, which are now a part of the United States.

[Illustration: THE PILGRIM FATHERS ENTERING THE NEW WORLD]




=Guy Fawkes=


In the time of James I, many of the English people were very hardly
treated because of their religion. At last they could bear the ill-usage
no longer, and they thought of a plan to get rid of the king and queen
and their eldest son.

Many barrels of gunpowder were secretly put into a cellar under the
Parliament House, where James was to meet his lords and commons on
November 5; and a man named Guy Fawkes was hired to set fire to it at
the right time, and so to blow up the hall above, and all in it.

All was ready, when one of the plotters remembered that a friend of his
would be at the meeting next day. As he did not wish him to be killed,
he sent him a letter, without signing his name, saying: "Do not go to
the House, for there shall be a sudden blow to many, and they shall not
see who hurts them".

The lord who received this letter took it to the King's Council, and
when King James saw it, he guessed what the "sudden blow" would be. Men
were sent to search the cellars, and there, on the very night before the
deed was to be done, Guy Fawkes was found waiting till the time should
come to set fire to the powder. He was cruelly tortured to make him tell
all he knew, but he was a brave man, and he died without betraying his
friends.

Since that time, every year, on the 5th of November, bonfires have been
lighted in many places in England, and "guys" burned, to remind people
how an English king was once saved from a great danger.

[Illustration: THE ARREST OF GUY FAWKES]




=Cromwell and his Ironsides=


When Charles I came to the throne of England, it was soon seen that he
was as bad a king as his father James I had been.

He did not care at all for the good of his country and his people, but
thought only of his own pleasure. He took away men's money and lands,
and if they offended him he took their lives too.

Englishmen would not bear this unjust treatment for long, and soon a war
began between the king and the people, who were determined to be free.

At first the king and his men were victorious everywhere, for they were
all used to horses and arms, and fought so well and so bravely that the
people could not stand against them. But at last a great leader arose
among the people. This leader, who was called Oliver Cromwell, was a
rough man, but he was just, good, and honest.

He saw at once that the people would never gain the victory over the
brave gentlemen-soldiers of King Charles, unless they had obedient and
well-trained men to fight for them. So he chose a band of plain,
hard-working men who feared God, and loved duty and right, and he spent
all his money in fitting them with arms and horses, and in training them
sternly, until they became the finest soldiers the world has ever known.
Cromwell called his men his "lovely company", and others called them
"Ironsides", for they were strong and firm as iron, and were never
beaten. It was these brave, sober, obedient soldiers who at last
defeated the king's army, and won freedom for the people of England.

[Illustration: CROMWELL LEADS HIS IRONSIDES TO BATTLE]




=The Spanish Armada=


The Armada was a great fleet which the King of Spain sent to attack
England, in the days of Queen Elizabeth. There were more than a hundred
ships, so large and high that they looked like towers on the sea; and
they came sailing along arranged in the shape of a big half-moon.

The great English admiral, Sir Francis Drake, was playing at bowls when
messengers came hurrying to tell him that the Armada was approaching. He
quietly finished his game, and then set sail to fight the Spaniards. His
fleet was not so large as the Armada, and the ships were small, but they
were light and fast. They met the Armada in the English Channel, and
sailed round it, attacking any ship that dropped out of line, and
speeding away before the clumsy Spanish vessels could seize them. In
this way they did much harm to the enemy. Then, one night, when it was
dark, and the Spanish vessels were lying quietly at anchor, Admiral
Drake sent eight blazing fire-ships into their midst. In great fear, the
Spaniards cut their anchor-ropes, and sailed out to the open sea, and
the English ships followed, firing upon them as they fled. For two days
the English chased the flying Spaniards. Then their powder and shot
failed, and a storm arose; so they had to go back. The Armada sailed on,
hoping to escape, but the wild tempest tossed many of the great vessels
on the rocks and cliffs of the coast, and dashed them to pieces. Only a
few, broken and battered, with starving and weary men on board, ever
reached Spain again. And so England was saved.

[Illustration: DRAKE IS TOLD THAT THE ARMADA IS APPROACHING]

[Illustration: THE LITTLE "REVENGE" FIGHTS FIFTY SPANISH GALLEONS]




=The Defence of Lathom House=


Lathom House is an old English castle. When the war broke out between
King Charles I and his people, the Earl of Derby, who was the master of
this castle, went away to fight for the king. He left the Countess at
home with her children, with a small band of armed men to guard her and
the castle. One day an army of the people's soldiers came to the castle,
and the leader of the army sent word to the Countess that she must give
up the castle at once.

But the Countess was a brave woman. She replied that she would rather
set fire to the castle, and die with her children in the flames, than
give it up to the king's enemies.

Then began a fight which lasted many weeks. The large army outside the
walls did their best to break a way in, but the small company inside
defended the castle bravely. At last the leader of the besiegers brought
a strong new gun, and it was soon seen that this would break down the
walls. Then one night the Countess sent out a party of brave men, who
seized the new gun and brought it into the castle, and so the worst
danger was over. Soon afterwards Prince Rupert, one of the king's
generals, came with an army to help the Countess, and Lathom House was
saved.

The prince drove away the soldiers of the people, and took from them
twenty-two banners, which he sent as a present to the Countess, to show
how much he admired her bravery.

[Illustration: THE COUNTESS RECEIVES THE BANNERS]




THE OUTLAWED ARCHERS.


Many years ago there dwelt in the forest of Inglewood, in the North
country, three yeomen, who had been outlawed for killing the king's
deer. They were all famous archers, and defying every attempt to arrest
them, they lived a free life in the green wood. But finally growing
tired of this dangerous life, they went to the king to sue for pardon.
It happened that the king's archers were exhibiting their skill by
shooting at marks, which none of them missed. But one of the outlawed
archers, named Cloudesly, made light of their skill, and told the king
that he could do better than any of his archers had done. "To prove the
truth of my claim," he said, "I will take my son, who is only seven
years old and is dear to me, and I will tie him to a stake, and lay an
apple on his head, and go six score paces from him, and with a broad
arrow I will cleave the apple in two."

"Now listen," said the king, "and do as you say; but if you touch his
head, or his dress, you shall be hanged all three."

"I will not go back on my word," said Cloudesly; and driving a stake
into the ground, he bound thereto his little son, and placed an apple on
his head. All being ready he bent his bow, the arrow flew from the
string, the apple was cleft in twain, and the child was unhurt. The king
thereupon pardoned the three outlaws and received them into his
service.

[Illustration: CLOUDSEY SHOOTS AN APPLE FROM THE HEAD OF HIS SON°]




=Elizabeth and Raleigh=


Sir Walter Raleigh was a favourite courtier of Queen Elizabeth. An old
story tells us of the way he won her favour.

One day, as the queen and her ladies were out walking, dressed in fine
robes of silk and lace, they came to a miry puddle in the road. The
queen stopped in dismay, for she did not like getting her feet wet and
dirty. As she was thinking how best to step through the mud, a young man
in a rich suit came along the road.

Directly he saw the queen, young Raleigh, for it was he, sprang forward,
and, taking off his velvet cloak, spread it over the mud for her to walk
upon.

Elizabeth was much pleased; she rewarded Raleigh with a post in the
palace. There, one day, he wrote upon a window which he knew the queen
would pass: "Fain would I climb, but that I fear to fall". When
Elizabeth saw this, she added these words: "If thy heart fail thee,
climb not at all". However, Raleigh did climb very soon to a high place,
for he was clever and brave as well as polite, and he served the queen
in many ways.

It is said that his ships first brought potatoes and tobacco to England
from America, and that he was the first man in this country to smoke.
One day, a servant brought a jug of ale into the room where Raleigh was
sitting and smoking. The man was much alarmed to see smoke coming from
his master's mouth, and he quickly emptied the jug of ale over Raleigh's
head, to put out the fire which he thought was burning within him.


